To begin with, I am completely new to the Java programming language, so while I do have prior experience with other languages, such as C++ and Python, it still is a bit of a learning curve for me. Thus, when I searched around the internet for beginner projects in Java, some results suggested that I could make a game in Java using swing. These results encouraged me to look back at a couple of games I played as a kid, and further see if I could find some simple game mechanic that I could replicate in Java. One of these games, titled Pokémon Ranger, fueled me with inspiration to see if I can make the same game loop of drawing a circle around an object that would move around on one’s display. Thus so, I decided on developing a project in java that would be a recreation of that game mechanic.

Before I discuss inputs and outputs, it would be easier to discuss what the game does first. When the game is initiated, there is a timer, a score that tracks your current score, a high score that must be beaten, and a red dot in the middle of the screen. The player draws circles (that connect from end to end to a certain degree) that surround the red dot to gain points, and to slow the timer down. When the timer runs out, the game ends. The inputs that are required in the game are the player’s mouse input (more specifically the position of the player’s mouse what it is being dragged), and a text file that will track the score next time the game opens. The output is in the form of that same text file that has the high score written if it was beaten by the player.
 How does it work:
1.	Setup our JFrame window so that we can use JPanel for our game.
2.	Create a class that will be our JPanel Game, which manages: the painting components, the screen dimensions, score and time incrementation, the position of our game object, and serves as our interaction between our other classes. (kind of like a main class 2)
3.	A “MouseListener” class manages the mouse input of the player and interacts with the lasso object in our JPanel Game. While the mouse is being held and moved it sends coordinates in the form of a Point object for the lasso object to hold on to for calculation. Then when the mouse is released, there is a conditional statement that checks if the conditions on the lasso objects’ isSurroundingObject method is true and we call the JPanel Game to increment the score, the time, and move the red dot. We also clear the points in our loop and repaint to remove the line regardless of condition.
4.	A “Lasso” Class, containing an ArrayList of Points (which are essentially coordinates) in which we have methods of storing points from the mouse and clearing the list. It also holds a recursive method that draws a line using the beginning Point on our list and the point next to it, until we hit the end of the list. The last method it holds is a method that checks if our loop surrounds an object. This is done by taking the points on our list and turning it into a Polygon object, then we use the Polygon’s Contain method to check if the Polygon’s interior contains the center coordinates provided by our GameObject class. (this is the red dot)
5.	The gameObject (which is our red dot), which draws a circle on the screen when given a position and radius. It also holds a Point of where it’s center is located for the Lasso Class to access.
6.	Finally, the HighScorer class, which holds a method of getting the score from a text file, and a method of saving a score to the text file. (I had a bit of difficulty with this as I had to use absolute file location. Therefore if you wanted to test the code on your own, please change the text on the fName to where the text file is located.)

I ended up learning quite a bit of the tools in the swing and awt libraries. However, it was a real struggle working this project as there was a lot of trial and error over these few months whilst pursuing through the swing and awt documentation. Luckily, I enjoyed how the product turned out and I might use this as a prototype for something more.
